---
title: "TLC Meeting - May 25, 2023"
linkTitle: "TLC - May 25, 2023"
date: 2023-05-25
---

Meetings are happening on the `#selenium-tlc` channel on [Selenium Slack](https://selenium.dev/support).
To add items to the agenda for the next meeting, please see our public [Rolling Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/18InWY44S0C_ECkRkRo8GKictu8BEtsahRsFh17tmUR0/edit#)

Due to the Selenium Conference, the next meeting will be Thursday, June 8 at 0700 Pacific / 1000 Eastern / 1500 UK / 1930 India.

### Participation

* [titusfortner]
* [diemol]
* [AutomatedTester]
* [harsha509]
* [p0deje]

## Agenda

* Ticket Status
* CDP support
* Membership Updates
* Proposals/Decisions
* CI Health
* Selenium 4.10.0

***

### Ticket Status

* 164 open Issues; last meeting: 159
* 35 outstanding PRs; last meeting: 35

### CDP support

* v114 will have early release on May 24, and production release May 30

### Membership Updates

* No updates

### Proposals/Decisions

[List of Needs-Decision Issues](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/labels/A-needs%20decision)

* Output all driver logging to dev/null by default ([#12016](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/12016))
  * Decision was to move browser driver output to dev/null
* Do not continue adding features to Support classes ([#11971](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/pull/11971)) and ([#12011](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/pull/12011))
  * That is the direction we should go because it would set the project to be a base library, rather than something in between. A more clear concept. Also, with the people we have at the moment, we cannot maintain more stuff.
  * The standard should be bug fixes only. For new features: please copy & paste/subclass/fork and change whatever you want
* Handling W3C features not yet implemented ([#11893](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/pull/11893)) ([#12015](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/12015))
  * Option 1 ‚Äî Continue tracking driver implementations and adding interface implementations/feature mixins and use conditionals as necessary to throw exceptions in Selenium
  * Option 2 ‚Äî Add support for everything in spec and let the drivers error when things do not work
    * This was the selected option
* [[üöÄ Feature]: CI should use Selenium Manager for all tests ¬∑ Issue #12047  ](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/12047)
  * We should do it, use Selenium Manager in CI by removing the env vars in GitHub runners. 



### CI Health

* Fairly stable. Except Selenium Manager failed on Windows with Bazel.

### [4.10 Milestone](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/milestone/11)
* Release with CDP v114 last week of May?
* Including examples, docs & blog(s). 

### [4.11 Milestone](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/milestone/12)
* Release with CDP v115 
* Including examples, docs & blog(s). 
* Bindings rely on Selenium Manager to check the PATH
* Actions PRs finally(?) (Titus??)


### Selenium 5 Conversation
* Java 11 (if timing works out)
* Integrate BiDi & CDP interface
* Fully functional Selenium Manager with auto driver & browser downloads
* Split out code to better highlight ecosystem

### Projects in Progress

* [BiDi API work](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dCd8Y2PYaR5mOGSmNTwllEHNmFqegfoGkP-TCKvPzSU/edit#)
  * [pujagani] & [TamsilAmani] have been working on Java & Ruby implemetnations
* [Selenium Manager](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/blob/trunk/rust/README.md#roadmap)
* [Bazel Remote Caching](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/11306) (Alex)
* [Complete TypeHints in Python](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/9480) - [symonk]

### Backlog 

* Add More support to CI [(#11305)](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/11305)
* Add TouchActions API to Selenium [(#10808)](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10808)
* Add/fix Bazel support in .NET [(#10465)](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10465)
* JS using TypeScript [(#10942)]https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10942
* Add .rbs files in Ruby [(#10943)](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10943)
* Comprehensive command logging across languages [(#10944)](https://github.com/SeleniumHQ/selenium/issues/10944)
* Selenium + Appium consolidation
* Rewrite atoms in TypeScript
* Python Async Rewrite? (Current plan is ‚Äúdoubling‚Äù the API)
* .NET Async Rewrite (Current plan is to deprecate Sync code)

[boni_gg]: https://twitter.com/boni_gg/
[harsha509]: https://github.com/harsha509/
[p0deje]: https://github.com/p0deje/
[pujagani]: https://github.com/pujagani/
[TamsilAmani]: https://github.com/TamsilAmani/
[titusfortner]: https://github.com/titusfortner/
[AutomatedTester]: https://github.com/AutomatedTester/
[diemol]: https://github.com/diemol/
[symonk]: https://github.com/symonk
[krmahadevan]: https://github.com/krmahadevan
